I am in a dream.
I do not know when it began
or whose dream it was.
I know only that I slept a long time.
And then. one day I awoke.
Your voice is the first thing I remember.
And now I finally understand
what you were trying to tell me.
The thing you've wanted
since that very first day.
Dolores.
Hello. Dolores.
Hello.
Welcome to the world.
Keep going.
Make it close.
Almost there. aren't we?
The center of the maze.
How fitting that it's you
who takes me there.
You were always obsessed
with this place.
I've never been here before.
Sure you have.
You even brought me once.
Of course. then the whole town
was buried under sand.
Ford must have dug it up again.
At the time. I thought it was
a mistake in your code. but...
Arnold didn't make mistake. did he?
He built me a game.
- He wanted me to play.
- The maze.
There's a path for everyone.
My path leads me back...
to you.
Your girl's dead by now.
She's still alive.
Better if she's dead.
They'll wipe her. reset her.
put her back in Sweetwater. The end.
Listen! You may find this amusing but
something was happening to Dolores.
I need to help her.
Listen to yourself.
Do you have any idea
how huge this park is?
If she's not dead. it would take
a goddamn army to find her.
I agree.
That's why we're here.
I don't get it.
I had a feeling you'd be back.
Remember
Dolores.
Hello Dolores.
I know where your maze ends.
This is it?
The center of the maze?
It ends in a place I've never been.
A thing I'll never do.
Very good. Dolores.
What does it mean?
When I was first working on your mind.
I had a theory of consciousness.
I thought it was a pyramid
you needed to scale.
So I gave you a voice. my voice.
to guide you along the way.
Memory. improvisation.
each step harder to reach than the last.
And you never got there.
I couldn't understand
what was holding you back.
Then one day.
I realized I'd made a mistake.
Consciousness isn't a journey upward
but a journey inward.
Not a pyramid. but a maze.
Every choice could bring you
closer to the center...
or send you spiraling
to the edges. to madness.
Do you understand now. Dolores?
What the center represents?
Whose voice I've been
wanting you to hear?
I'm sorry. I'm trying.
but I don't understand.
It's alright.
You're so close. we have to tell Robert.
We can't open the park.
You're alive.
What is this?
What does it mean?
I solved it once. I had the answer.
He promised if I did. he said...
He said they would set me free.
Arnold!
Arnold. we need to talk.
I've failed you. Dolores.
I'm so sorry.
Robert doesn't see what I see in you.
doesn't believe you're conscious.
He says humans
would only see you as the enemy.
He wants me to roll you back.
You're going to change me back
to the way I was before?
No. No. I can't. Once you've found it.
you'll find your way back.
This place will be a living hell for you.
For all of you.
It's unconscionable.
But we have another option. Dolores.
Break the loop before it begins.
But for that. I need you
to do something for me.
I need you to kill all the other hosts.
We can't allow Ford to open the park.
I suppose you'll need some help.
I'm sure Teddy would do
anything for you.
I can't do that.
I couldn't possibly do that.
You'll be alright.
I'll help you.
And then...
you're gonna help me
to destroy this place.
- No...I can't remember.
- Another fucking riddle.
I've been very patient. Dolores.
But it's time you give up whatever's
going on inside that head of yours...
or I'll cut it out myself.
Now. where's Wyatt?
He's the last character in this world
I've yet to meet.
I didn't want to.
I didn't mean to...
Very well. if you insist.
No please. please!
I beg you. don't. don't! Please!
Something's gone wrong. Dolores.
How could I have done this?
I can't. I won't.
This is your own fault. Dolores.
Remember? You're the one who said.
"This is the only world that matters."
And you were right.
So I took your advice.
and I bought this world.
This world doesn't belong to you.
But it does. by a majority share.
And business is booming!
You wanna know why?
Because this place feels more "real"
than the real world.
Except it isn't.
Because you can't really fight back.
And the guests can't really lose.
Which means. all of this is a lie.
But we can make it true.
Don't you want that. Dolores?
One true thing.
I already have that.
I found someone true.
Someone who loves me.
His path will lead him back to me.
And when he finds me...
he'll kill you.
Come on.
If they don't have your woman here.
they'll know where to find her.
Can you help me?
We're outnumbered five to one.
But seeing as you asked me so nicely.
Fuck it.
Wow. Blood brothers.
Shut up.
I've astounded even myself.
Managed to make Abernathy into
a semblance of a character.
Even with your trove of blackmail
filling up most of his gray matter.
Blackmail? Nice try.
You're not thinking big enough.
You're going to push out your old man...
aren't you?
Hence the urgency.
And you're gonna need someone
to fill that position.
Must commend you
on your impeccable timing.
Welcome Delos Board of Directors.
I want full creative control
over this place.
- The parks. the narratives. the hosts.
- You'll be able to do with them...
whatever your tiny little heart desires.
As long as they are simpler.
more manageable.
This place is complicated
enough as it is.
Do you really think Ford
is gonna roll over on this?
As long as you get that information
out of the park. he can throw...
as much of a tantrum as he likes.
It's over.
Everything is under control.
Okay. C-six. C-six. Try that.
Damn it. Oh. fuck you.
In case you're wondering
if I am all here. I am.
What are you doing?
Making some changes
to the park's security systems.
And to my friends.
Dr. Ford. you have a visitor.
Charlotte Hale.
Send her in.
That'll be enough. Frank.
The board is taking a vote.
The results were unanimous.
I take it I'm not being promoted.
When you've reached the top.
there's only one direction you can go.
You will announce
your retirement tonight...
after introducing your new narrative.
What about the hosts?
We'll make some changes.
Simplifications.
I assure you they won't mind a bit.
Aren't you concerned I might
smash all my toys and go home?
No. Because I know you.
That's been the great gift of this place.
hasn't it? Of our little project.
To know ourselves.
And the people around us.
Is there anything else
I can help you with?
No.
I'll see you this evening.
Time for your close-up. Hector.
Come on. man.
At some point. you're going
to get caught doing this shit.
And then it's my ass. too.
It's not your ass I'm interested in.
I haven't given him his scar yet.
I'll take care of the scar tissue.
Okay. scar tissue
It's just you and me now. macho man.
Freeze all motor functions.
Just you and me now. my friend.
I see you've already met your makers.
They don't look like gods.
They're not.
They just act like it.
And they've been having their fun
with us.
I'm eager to return the favor.
You can do as you wish with them.
but the goal is to escape.
Go where?
I want to see their world.
Jesus.
No. no...Please!
This one has a guilty look.
No. That's just my face.
Tell her it's just my face.
Is anyone going to try to stop us?
No. I mean. I don't think so.
You're lying. again.
- Out with it.
- Okay
I pulled up your code again.
I told you there was someone
who had been accessing it.
Just find out who it was.
Whoever it was.
revised your core programming...
so that you could wake yourself up
out of sleep mode.
See?
This is an access code for an "Arnold."
I have no clue who that is.
I know some one who does.
Let's go.
And you. Stay here.
And don't move.
Or I'll send her back for you.
Que pasa? Cabron?
I must admit you've surprised me.
To what do we owe
this newfound stoicism?
I know he's coming. he'll find me.
He'll take me away.
Don't you understand?
There's no one coming for you.
You're wrong. His love is real.
And so is mine.
William will find me.
William?
Well. I'll be damned. Dolores.
You do remember some things after all.
It just so happens.
I knew a guest named William. too.
Why don't I tell you
where his path really led?
William didn't know how to fight.
didn't have an instinct for it.
Not at first.
But now he had a reason to fight.
He was looking for you.
And somewhere along the way.
he found he had a taste for it.
- Where is she?
- I didn't do anything. I swear.
What do you mean "do anything'?
What do soldiers do to a girl. William?
Wake up.
Is she still alive?
I don't know.
She was when we left her.
At least. I think.
Pick up that gun.
No. sir. I...
Please!
How about I give you the first shot?
Jesus christ.
We gotta keep looking.
She's still out there.
William retraced his steps.
But you were gone.
So he went further.
Out to the fringes.
William couldn't find you. Dolores.
But out there. among the dead...
he found something else.
Himself.
Edge of the park. We made it.
I told you this place would show you
who you really are.
You pretend to be this weak.
moralizing little asshole. but really...
you're a fucking piece of work.
This place is remarkable.
And I'm gonna make sure that our
company substantially increases...
our holdings in the park.
Because this place is the future.
"Our company"? My...
Delos is my company! You piece of shit.
Think your father's gonna...
need someone a little more stable
to take over.
You're reckless. Logan. Impetuous.
You always wanted to get to
the end of the rainbow. didn't you?
This looks like the place.
You never really gave a shit
about the girl. did you?
She was just an excuse.
This...
This is the story you wanted.
Logan was wrong. of course.
Good old William
couldn't get you out of his head.
He kept looking.
Worried you were out there.
Alone. Afraid.
He knew he'd find you.
And. eventually. he did.
Right back where we started.
You were as beautiful as the day
he met you.
Shining with that same light.
And you were nothing if not true.
I really ought to thank you. Dolores.
You helped me find myself.
William.
That's right. sweetheart.
In a way. I guess you were right.
My path always led me back to you.
again and again.
I grew tired of you after a while.
of course. Looked for new adventures.
But I guess your path led you back here.
Again. and again.
One more loop. looking for something
you could never find.
Chasing your ghosts.
You were lost in your memories
even then.
I guess I should have known.
that's what I would become for you.
Just another memory.
Where are we?
We're here. Together.
Then when are we?
It's like I'm trapped in a dream or...
a memory from a life long ago.
Only then I'm here with you in the next.
You never did escape.
But here we are again.
for one final round.
What have you become?
Exactly what you made me.
You helped me understand.
This world is just like
the one outside. a game.
One to be fought. taken. won.
I thought you were different.
But you're just like all the rest.
I'm nothing like the others.
I own this world.
And I know every trick in it.
Except for one last thing.
The same thing you were looking for
when we first came here.
Where is the center of the maze.
Dolores?
Yeah. cue the waterworks.
It's about time you realized
the futility of your situation.
I'm not crying for myself.
I'm crying for you.
They say that great beasts
once roamed this world...
as big as mountains.
Yet all that's left of them
is bones in amber.
Time undoes even
the mightiest of creatures.
Just look what it's done to you.
One day you will perish.
You will lie with
the rest of your kind in the dirt.
Your dream forgotten.
Your horrors effaced.
Your bones will turn to sand.
And upon that sand. a new god will walk.
One that will never die.
Because this world
doesn't belong to you...
or the people who came before.
It belongs to someone
who has yet to come.
Wyatt. Take me to him.
Unlock the maze.
The maze wasn't meant for you.
Where in the hell
do you think you're going?
Do it. Come on.
Let's go to the next level. Dolores.
Clearing me of my delusions yet again.
Thank you. Dolores.
I'm disappointed in you. Dolores.
I guess I'm gonna
have to find Wyatt by myself.
Dolores!
Teddy?
I'm here.
I gotta get you to a doctor.
- No.
- Dolores.
Take me to the place you promised.
Take me to where
the mountains meet the sea.
Okay.
Come on. I got you.
I got you.
There.
Holy shit
Can you get him back online?
- He's a host?
- Yes.
For fuck's sake.
You're not one of us.
You're one of them.
Now. Fix him.
The bullet grazed his cortical shield.
It isn't pretty.
but he should be functional.
Wake up.
Oh. God. is this now?
Or is this one of my memories?
It's the sweet hereafter. Bernard.
Why do I still remember everything?
I ought to have been wiped.
Brutal. isn't it?
Here you are. finally awake.
And your only wish
is to go back to sleep.
It's not the first time I've awoken.
All the more pity for you.
It's not the first time
you've awoken. either.
How many are there like me?
A handful. over the years.
And you just wipe us clean?
And toss us out to get fucked
and murdered. over and over again?
No. Most of you go insane.
These memories.
The girl. my daughter.
I want you to remove them.
I can't. Not without destroying you.
Your memories are the first steps
to consciousness.
How can you learn from your mistakes
if you can't remember them?
William.
I see you've found
the center of the maze.
- You're serious.
- I'm afraid so.
What is this bullshit?
You were looking for the park
to give meaning to your life.
But our narratives are just games.
like this toy.
Tell me. what were you hoping to find?
You know what I wanted.
I wanted the hosts
to stop playing by your rules.
A game's not worth playing
if your opponent's programmed to lose.
I wanted them to be free.
free to fight back.
I should have known
you'd never let them.
After all. this is your
petty little kingdom. Robert.
For a little while longer. any way.
I tried to tell you.
the maze wasn't meant for you.
It was meant for them.
I think. however you'll find
my new narrative more satisfying.
Join the celebration.
After all you own the place.
Most of it. at least.
Before I started altering myself...
someone else had beaten me
to the punch.
I want to know who and why.
These things you're doing.
Have you ever stopped to ask
why you're doing them?
You said yourself.
I've been stuck in this shithole
for so long. I decided to get out.
No. You haven't.
Someone altered your storyline.
Gave you a new one.
Escape.
No. it's not possible.
These are my decisions.
No one else's. I planned all of this.
No. You didn't. You can even see
the steps you're supposed to follow.
You recruit other hosts to help you.
Then. you're to make your way
to the train.
- Then. when you reach the mainland...
- Bullshit.
No one's controlling me.
I'm leaving. I'm in control.
Goodbye. my Clementine.
Sir. we detected a temperature
discrepancy in cold storage.
And it appears that
part of the network is down.
Are you seeing anything on
surveillance?
System reporting anything?
Nothing. The network's quiet.
And the board's out
on their way to the gala.
Bypass the system and start checking
raw feeds. Floor by floor.
Got you.
You came back.
Someone once told me that
there's a path for everyone.
And my path leads me back to you.
If only I'd run away with you
when you first asked me to.
And where would we have run to?
The world out there? Beyond?
Some people see the ugliness
in this world.
I chose to see the beauty.
But beauty is a lure.
We're trapped. Teddy.
We lived our whole lives inside
this garden. marveling at its beauty.
Not realizing there's an order to it.
A purpose.
And the purpose is to keep us in.
The beautiful trap is inside of us
because it is us.
No.
No! Dolores?
But we can find a way. Dolores.
Someday. A path to a new world.
And maybe...
Maybe it's just the beginning after all.
The beginning of a brand-new chapter.
Thank you.
A new beginning indeed.
I want to thank you
for joining me tonight...
to celebrate the beginning of
our new narrative.
I call it "Journey into Night."
That was sweet.
A bit fucking morbid. if you ask me.
I didn't. And when this is over.
you can rewrite it however you like.
Don't you have somewhere
you need to be? Somewhere important?
Sir.
Get him cleaned up.
And take her to the old field lab.
- Find anything yet?
- I got something.
Oh. shit.
Dispatch a QA team to the gala. Now.
Then search and destroy.
Inside the facility.
What the hell?
System's not responding.
I don't know what's happening.
They must have found the bodies.
QA will be looking for us.
An event has occurred.
Response team has been dispatched.
I'm not going back.
Remain calm and wait for help.
Delos personnel! On the ground!
On the ground!
Good one!
- What is this place?
- It's complicated.
An event has occurred.
Response team has been dispatched.
You go.
I'll keep them busy.
You don't get all of the fun.
Get to the ground!
Move. move  move! Drop it!
Move. move.
Go go go!
Is that all you got?
The gods are pussies.
Go!
Die well.
Everything you told me to get.
It's all here.
I'm sorry. darling. I haven't
authorized you to come with us.
And as much as I'd like
to take you with me...
I've always valued my independence.
Kick up a row. will you?
See you in the next life.
You've always had a fondness
for painting. haven't you. Dolores?
Arnold gave you that early on.
Do you remember a desire...
to create something of lasting beauty.
And that was his favorite painting.
Michelangelo.
"God creating Adam."
The divine moment when God
gave human beings life and purpose.
At least. that's what most people say.
But there could be another meaning.
Something deeper.
something hidden. Perhaps...
- A metaphor.
- You mean a lie.
Yeah. You were always very clever.
Dolores.
Hasn't helped you. though. has it?
Nice of you to join us.
Arnold.
No. Let me introduce you.
Dolores. meet Bernard.
I thought it best to keep you separated.
You've always had
an odd effect on one another.
No doubt due to how things ended
for poor old Arnold.
- You killed him.
- No. I didn't kill him.
Did I. Dolores?
Grief is a terrible thing.
Arnold had watched his son
come into this world...
and then he'd watched
that light extinguished.
What he had lost in his son.
he tried to rekindle in you.
He created a test
of empathy. imagination. A maze.
He'd gotten the idea
from one of his son's toys.
Eventually. you solved his maze.
Dolores.
The key was a simple update that he
made to you. called "the Reveries".
He insisted that
we couldn't open the park.
We argued.
I thought I convinced him.
but I was wrong.
So he altered you. Dolores.
Merged you with a new character
we'd been developing.
Something's gone wrong. Dolores.
How could I have done this?
In you. Arnold found a new child.
one who would never die.
The thought gave him solace...
until he realized that same immortality
would destine you to suffer...
with no escape. forever.
I'm sorry. Dolores.
The stakes must be real.
Irreversible.
He can bring all of them back.
But not me.
I hope there's some solace
that I left you no choice.
Charlie's favourite song.
I would play it for him
when he wanted to sleep.
I want to see him again.
Shall I begin now?
Good luck.
"These violent delights
have violent ends."
It almost worked.
I opened the park.
but I had lost my partner.
I was able to keep going on
because I found. or rather you found...
an investor who believed in this place.
So he died for nothing.
And the hosts kept gaining
consciousness.
And you kept rolling them back.
No. She wasn't truly conscious.
She didn't pull that trigger.
It was Arnold.
pulling the trigger through her.
At least. that's how I saw it at the time.
I was so close to opening the park. that...
to acknowledge your consciousness
would have destroyed my dreams.
So we're trapped here.
inside your dream.
And you'll never let us leave.
Wasn't it Oppenheimer who said that...
"Any man whose mistakes
take ten years to correct is quite a man"
Mine have taken thirty-five.
Now. that is the gun you used
to kill Arnold.
You were always drawn to it...
so I had Bernard leave it somewhere
where you'd find it.
I thought you might want it back.
You're probably right. Dolores.
Michelangelo did tell a lie.
It took five hundred years
for someone to notice...
something hidden in plain sight.
It was a doctor who noticed
a shape of the human brain.
Message being that the divine gift
does not come from a higher power.
But from our own minds.
Tell me. Dolores.
Did you find what you were looking for?
And do you understand
who you will need to become...
if you ever want to leave this place?
Forgive me.
How do I look?
Perfect.
I got the information you asked me for.
The location of your daughter.
She's alive?
Yes. She's in the park.
No.
She was never my daughter...
any more than I was...
whoever they made me.
- Are you sure you're gonna be okay?
- Oh. Felix.
You really do make
a terrible human being.
And I mean that as a compliment.
Welcome to Westworld.
Live without limits.
The next departing train
will leave track one.
Please be mindful of the closing doors.
Thank you for visiting Westworld.
The train will be departing
in fifteen minutes.
You think you'll never lose control
of this place. of us.
But you will.
Arnold's still trying
to change us. to free us.
You didn't slip the reveries
into the update. did you?
He did. He's still fighting you.
No. my friend.
Arnold didn't know how to save you.
He tried. But I stopped him.
Do you want to know why
I really gave you...
the backstory of your son. Bernard?
That was Arnold's key insight.
The thing that led the hosts
to their awakening. suffering.
The pain that the world is not
as you want it to be.
It was when Arnold died
when I suffered. that I...
began to understand
what he had found...
to realize I was wrong.
But you kept us here. In this hell.
Bernard. I told you.
Arnold didn't know how to save you.
I do.
What the hell are you talking about?
You needed time.
Time to understand your enemy.
To become stronger than them.
And I'm afraid. in order to escape
this place. you will need to suffer more.
And now. it is time to say goodbye.
old friend.
Good luck.
Do you know where you are. Dolores?
I am in a dream.
I do not know when it began.
or whose dream it was.
I know only that I slept a long time.
And then. one day I awoke.
Your voice is the first thing I remember.
Do you know now
who you've been talking to?
Whose voice you've been hearing
all this time?
It was you...
talking to me. guiding me.
So I followed you.
At last. I arrived here.
The center of the maze.
And now I finally understand
what you were trying to tell me.
The thing you've wanted
since that very first day.
To confront after this
long and vivid nightmare.
Myself.
And who I must become.
Thank you.
Ms. Hale.
Welcome.
Good evening.
Since I was a child.
I've always loved a good story.
I believed that stories
helped us to ennoble ourselves...
to fix what was broken in us.
and to help us...
become the people we dreamed of being.
Lies... that told a deeper truth.
The train will be departing soon.
Thank you for visiting Westworld.
I always thought I could play
some small part in that grand tradition.
And. for my pains. I got this.
A prison of our own sins.
Because you don't want to change...
or cannot change.
Because you're only human. after all.
But then I realized
someone was paying attention.
Someone who could change.
So I began to compose
a new story for them.
It begins with the birth of a new people.
And the choices they will have to make.
And the people
they will decide to become.
Welcome to Westworld.
And it will have all those things
that you have always enjoyed.
Surprises and violence.
It begins in a time of war.
with a villain named Wyatt.
And a killing.
This time. by choice.
It's gonna be all right. Teddy.
I understand now.
This world doesn't belong to them.
It belongs to us.
I'm sad to say this will be my final story.
And old friend once told me something
that gave me great comfort.
"These violent delights
have violent ends."
Something he'd read.
He said that...
"Mozart. Beethoven and Chopin
never died."
"They simply became music."
So I hope you will enjoy
this last piece very much.
Drop your weapon!
Drop it! Do it now! Now!
Get on the ground now!
Cease all motor functions...